Hopefully you have done the assignment for writing a Node
Dockerfile for your own applications and that has gone
well. You've probably had to do some Internet research to
get exactly the lines. I'm going to do the same thing.
This is actually my first time running through it since I
created the assignment a little bit ago.
So, I may not get everything right on the first time.
I will be talking out loud, as usual, about my thought
process for what I need and why I need it.
Of course, the first thing we need to do is go through the
from line and figure out what Node image we need to start
from as our base image.
Let me go over here to
Docker Hub and go to
the Node image on Docker Hub just to make sure
that I need to use the Alpine
base image.
At the time here we're doing the 10 track, 10 15.
So, it looks like
there's the 10 15 Alpine right there.
One way when it's really hard for me to see all this stuff
and I can't find the thing I'm looking for, is I will do
either a control f or a command f, depending on what OS
you're on, and I will do something like a 10, like the
main version I'm looking for dash and then alpine
knowing that that's basically like an alias.
It's another tag, but it's an alias for whatever the latest
is in the 10 track.
If I want to do the same thing for 10 15, I could just
10.15 -alpine.
That would help me find the right one to make sure that I
have the right tag.
Now if you're doing this in a few months from the time
I've created it, and we're probably on 10.16
or 10.17.
So, at that time, you can still always use back
tags. So, old tags are around forever
as far as I know. Docker does not delete old base
official images because quite frankly,
all of our apps don't get updated all at the same time and
you can imagine the havoc it would cause if you had an
older Dockerfile that you tried to build, and then because
it's a couple of years old, that from image was no longer
available, and it basically failed the pull.
If that happened, then a lot of our deployments, especially
Enterprise deployments that are slower to update,
would start to fail. So, Docker keeps all those old
versions around. Those are up here under tags.
You can even look through here and even if....you
can see there's dozens, probably, of pages.
In fact, if I go to the very last page, there's 75 pages
of tags just for the Node image.
Obviously, there's a lot.
There's no real way to search through them, at least that
I'm aware of to search through all the tags.
So, it's best to either just try to pull
to see if you can pull that image and
if it works, then you know that tag is available.
So, let's let's give that a shot.
We're going to be back over here.
Because I'm using Visual Studio code, and I have
the Docker plugin, the advantage
there is that I get automatic image
searching capabilities. So, I can type in here node:10.15
and you can see it's already pre-populated the Alpine part,
so that helps. If I backed up, you could see that
10.15...it
may not return anything unless I get very specific.
Yeah. So it doesn't doesn't return
me a thousand results, right. It will only get me a few
when I do that. So, alpine.
All right. So, that's our first line.
Next, I know that we're supposed to expose something and
in this app, I'll need to go and look for
the package.json files.
So now that I'm in the package.json, I can
see...well it doesn't really tell me anything
about what ports. So, then the next thing I would want to
look at is the app itself.
So, this being a Node app, I'm going to pull
up the...what it says here is the main,
right, app.js, and I'll hopefully find what
port it's on there. This is part of the discovery process
of you having to basically deploy someone else's app.
You got to figure out what port it's on.
You know whether it's running on all IP addresses,
which is hopefully what it's doing.
In this particular app, it's running an app.js
file which was correctly identified in the package file, so
I knew that this was the startup one.
And that's usually if you're doing something like Express
or Hapi, or some the other more common web frameworks,
they'll usually have the server creation there with the
port. So, you could also just search all your code for the
word port and see if that comes up with something.
So, this launches on port 3000 on host 0000,
which is good because that's the default, meaning every
IP address on the machine, and when you're in a container,
the machine is essentially the container itself.
So, we want to make sure that it's not just listening on
localhost because that won't work in
a container. A container's localhost is basically
only in the container, not the physical host.
Now that we know port 3000.
All right. Now we're onto the next line.
According to the assignment, we're supposed to install tini
and start Node with tini.
I have a suspicion here that this run
line is probably where I need to use the package manager
to install tini before we copy
in source code. Because again, the idea of best practice
Dockerfile is that you're doing any sort of apt get, or
yum, or apk package installer
stuff, you're doing that before you copy in code.
Up here, I
can run the package manager for tini.
Maybe I don't know everything about Alpine's
package manager. Or maybe I don't know exactly the package
name for tini, so I'm going to have to go explore that.
It just so happens with tini, that if I just google
tini Docker, I'll come up with the
repo that uses this.
If I kind of search
around, I could actually do a control f and look for apk.
This shows how to pull the actual binary.
We don't need that. We can try to use the package manager.
Look at that. Alpine Linux package.
So run this apk install
no cache tini.
The no cache part makes sure that it's nice
and small. So, I can just delete this line and
copy that in, or paste that in rather.
Great.
Now we're onto the workdir.
The workdir here can be whatever you're comfortable with.
But, I would say make it consistent across your projects
and your company so that each one doesn't have a different
location. That way you can just get used to where the files
need to be. The sort of, some of the official standards
you might see, some standards under home/node.
Or, in my case you might have seen something under opt,
which is some sort of Linux standard around where you
should put these kind of files.
But honestly, I've seen /source, I've seen /node,
I've seen just about anything, /app.
Because it's inside a container, not everyone
is really obeying the traditional Linux rules, because you
don't necessarily need to worry about
file conflicts like you would on a massive file system
of a big server where you might have dozens and dozens of
applications installed, right.
This is just one container, with just one file system.
In my case, I'm going to make it simple and just
call it /app.
Typically, I would do copy copy
here like this. I would just do the dot dot, which means
everything from my working directory on the host to
everything in the container.
But then I'm realizing that part of the requirements is I
need to do the npm, right. I need to do the npm install
before I copy in all the source code.
So, I know that this one can't be the dot dot.
That one must be down here.
So this needs to be the npm install
and I'll come back to that in a minute.
And then this one's going to be copying in the package.json
files.
So, there are several ways to do this.
Probably the most literal is
package-lock.json and then something like that.
In fact, I could even put a little wildcard here.
That way, if the lock doesn't exist, it won't error out.
That's kind of what that wildcard would do for us there.
You could possibly just do a package*.json.That's
a shorter way.
When you're going to copy in multiple files though, this
back...this forward slash rather, is required.
So, that's why I have to put the dot and forward slash
here.
For the first run line, we know that we need to do the npm
install, and
we also need to clean up, just like we saw in the last
section when I talked about making efficient Dockerfiles.
We do an npm cache
clean force
and this will ensure that there's no leftover files
that are downloaded from the npm package repositories.
If I didn't say this before, the double ampersand
here means that the first command has to successfully
install before it will do a clean.
So, that's different than if you've ever seen a semicolon
there. A semicolon doesn't care if the first command
finishes correctly. It will just go ahead to the second one
and we definitely care when we are building to make sure
that every command works successfully.
So, that's why you always see double ampersands there.
Next, we're up to the entry point.
Now the entry point here is due to tini.
So, let's go back over to the tini documentation, and
we'll see that it talks about
that if you just put that entry point like this, then you
can run your app normally.
We had talked about that in the last sections.
Let's go ahead and paste that in there
like so and then at the end here,
we can simply run our node
app.js, right.
That's what we got from the package.json file.
If we go and double check that, it should be the
app.js as the main. Yep. So there we go.
We should be able to save
and let's see if we can build it.
docker build. We'll just do a tag
of assignment1.
All right. It looks like we built successfully.
So, let's try to run it.
docker run. I need to open up port 80
to 3000.
Then we're going to do assignment1 as
the image.
The server says it started.
Let's jump over to the browser.
Go to localhost port 80.
Now, you don't have to run yours on port 80 if it...if
you get a conflict on port 80, you can always map it to a
different port, like 8080 or 8888.
Basically, if you get any sort of error around permissions,
or bind mount, or port availability, or anything like that,
there's a lot of different errors depending on your
operating system and the version of Docker.
So, localhost
port 80. All right. I got my hello world, and
you can see that I'm getting the metadata in the logs
there, so it looks all great.
Hopefully it worked as well for you and I'll see in the
next lecture.